A strange request:
Hey <famous DJ name>,
My name is Brice Randolph and i'm a graduate student at UCLA pursuing Statistics (more specifically probabilistic AI). I teach a class on statistical modeling and data mining(Stats 101C), and i've shown my students some crazy applications of the subject. For example, i've shown them how Shazam works and how Siri can tell you what song is playing - if you ask her. I have a little competition where I put on a DJ set and pick a random 30 second clip. I tell the students that they have 30 seconds to tell me who sings the song - using any machine learning algorithms they have in their pockets. The class is really fun, and i've gotten some great feedback so far. This will be the last class most of these students ever take!
I teach them a little bit of signal processing and machine learning on music- they absolutely love this, and I think I'm one of the only people doing this as a TA. My main goal in teaching this class is to make this as unforgettable as possible. I go great lengths to make this class as epic as I can. I stand on desks when I see a drowsy student about to fall asleep. I even bring all my students coffee in the mornings since the classes are at 8 am and 9 am. ( I still get about 85% attendance - which is pretty damn good).
As for my request... I had this idea that I could bring in an electronic music artist as a surprise for the class. They could teach a little bit and I could ask them questions related to statistics and machine learning on music.
What's in it for them? Well, there are about 80 UCLA undergraduate seniors in the class, with academic majors ranging from Statistics, Political Science, Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, Economics, Business, Physics, even Musicology. These students are the future nerds of America ( and China, to be fair...). Talk about networking...
As a student, I've DJ'd parties and blasted artists like Calvin Harris, Kaskade, Skrillex, and Benny Benassi. So, essentially, I've advertised for them... and continued the party until like 3 AM (I was in the biggest fraternity at UCLA - shit, I still am). I think I might find an artist who would be willing to come into class to promote themselves and the EDM scene in general. Many artists play sets like Bruin Bash... that's how most of us found out about Kendrick Lamar and Major Lazer. Why can't some artists come in and help teach a class? Some of the students in my class don't even listen to Electronic Music - they are from all over the world. I think some artists might want to spread their music to other cultures. Any help is appreciated.
Cheers,
Brice Randolph (The unorthodox TA)
